That's it. Interview number 5, Marie Fanariotti in the Greek Orthodox Church. Friday the 29th
of March 2019. And Katerina Lange.
Yes.
Yes. Yes.
I remember well because I worked my first job after school. My first job when I left school,
I worked for Bistis Shipchandler. He was Andriotis, the nabodinander. And I worked in the office with
lots of other people. The Pasco family. John Pasco was in charge of the office.
That was just one of them, wasn't it? Bistis. Mr. Bistis himself was Bistis Shipstoss.
Where was Bistis? Where was his writing?
Down the bay. Just past.
On Bute Street?
On Bute Street.
Just past where the bank is now.
Oh no.
I think they're renovating the bank. Opposite to Quantum.
Quantum.
Next to the bank. Where the Portuguese coffee shop is now. That's where it was.
That's where Bistis was. And that's where I worked as a young girl of 15, I think, when I left school.
If I don't mind, when was that? 1960?
Well, I was only 47, so.
1962.
Father Spiro got me the job. The priest at the time here. He was from Kerkira.
Anyway, that was one of them. Then Mr. Kallinikos had his.
It was in James Street.
James Street. That was the Greek Consulate.
And also he had ship shantlers. A lot of young men and ladies worked in his offices too.
One of them was Alego Dant. He was passed away recently.
Do you remember when? Where on?
In James Street.
Approximately on James Street?
Just off. Just behind.
It's where the new houses are now, isn't it?
It's where that new estate is in James Street.
What? Century Walk?
The Louisa Estate. The one with the brick.
Yes. The red brick.
That's when it was. It was all knocked down.
And the new housing estate.
When did Kallinikos close?
The Consulate.
When he actually closed his stores.
The stores? No, he was working the stores as well as the Consulate.
But when did he close? Because he was taking the ship from the ship shantlers.
The Consulate from his home address.
The Consulate closed in 1984.
I know this because Father Sanopatas remembered about this.
He gave me a couple of portraits of Kallinikos.
Any other old buildings?
Yes, we had Samonas.
The ship shantlers as well.
Samonas.
First time I'm hearing about this.
Were the Kolakidists down there or not?
Samonas were pretty.
I have no idea.
Who was Samonas?
Somebody was talking about Samonas.
He was just like Serike Pola and Tasia.
Tasia Bridge.
She was here.
She was there.
I'm trying to think.
Metissera.
That was Mandros.
Yes.
Mandros ship shantlers.
The guy who had Mandros, now he has a ship shantlers in London.
So I contacted him and he actually sent me quite a lot of photos from his old shop.
He sent me five or six different photos.
Because that was one of the last that's been...
Yes, they all moved to London.
The Kolakis as well.
Yes.
Most of these people lived in Bari.
That's where they resided.
Their businesses were down the bay, but they lived.
Their residence was in Bari.
So all Bari people, well, Nisiotis, stayed in Bari at the time when the port was in its heyday of course.
Who else was there?
Yes.
Kalamatousides.
They're still growing very strong.
Big supporters of the church to this day.
Is there any way that I can contact him, this family, so if they have any old pictures?
Kalamatousides, his father's got all the information.
He's got contact numbers and he's in contact with them quite a lot.
And the Kolakis.
He's been in contact with them most recently.
He sent us a donation to the North Kolakis.
So he has a lot of information that you could, they would have, they would have ample material that you could use.
There was mainly photos.
Yes.
Because of the religious nature.
Yes, so much.
Are there any photographs in that magazine we produced?
For the 100 years of the church.
There might be.
Have you got that?
I don't have this, but I've seen this here at some point.
No, I think there's some over there.
You might find some photographs of interest there.
There was lots of other.
Sorry.
Any other?
Ship shandlers.
Any great pictures.
Did they tell you about Lambros?
The big, it was the, well not Cornish, it was the, he was what Wally's is today, the delicatessen.
He was the Greek bakaliker of the time in the early, late 40s and 50s all along Butte Street.
And all along the main street in Butte Street there was all Greek houses.
The old houses where they'd been knocked down completely.
All Greek families, which I know the old folk have died and people moved on to America.
And evidently all the buildings have been knocked down.
And then all the way up Butte Street there were all the Lambros.
Yes, it was a cafe, you don't know the cafes.
The Spiros.
The Archbishop.
Where was the church?
Athanasios, Athanasios.
Right here almost, that's just part of the, what's all this here?
Yes.
The wedding of Mrs. Katerina.
You got married here.
Yes.
Who is this?
Pate Spiros Dasilas.
He came in 1958.
Who is this?
Our Antonis.
What's his name?
Yes, Antonis.
He came in 1958 with Dimitris.
1958.
This is your wedding?
No.
Yes, yes.
We are patriots with the Lambros.
Really?
Yes.
We are in the neighboring villages.
Really?
Yes, I know them.
Which village?
I am in Mousaiki.
How nice.
Pate Spiros, Psalts.
I am in Cyprus.
Prokidis, George.
As you said, do you know who is here in a photo?
This palikari, who is here, is not the priest.
The teacher.
Ah.
Yes.
We were in the church.
We were in a park.
Yes.
The park was empty.
I want to ask you something.
Yes.
When the children are in the park,
they can't go out.
Yes.
What time should we go to the park?
Well, six.
Six.
We will start from here.
You will take the car.
I should be...
...five and a half.
We should be six.
Yes, because six and a half starts.
I will take the car.
Okay.
Yes, okay.
There is a parking lot.
Yes.
There is quite a lot of old,
just old photographs here.
Who was that?
Thomas?
Was it Maritsa?
Yes.
Maritsa.
It might be Papa Thomas,
because Thomas baptized me.
You were born here, ma'am?
Yes.
During the war.
My father traveled and was found here.
My mother and my brothers.
They were born here.
And they came here
to see me.
And I was born in 1942.
What is your father's name?
Baboula.
My mother is Kostala.
Kostala and Baboula.
Okay.
So,
it was
the shop of Lambrou.
Lambrou.
Maroukou.
And the cafe.
The cafe where
everyone was standing.
But there were others
who had cafes.
I don't remember who the others were.
All in one row.
The old opera house.
The Radisson Blue.
All of the Radisson Blue.
All of the corners
where you took the corner
and came down from the bridge.
All of that was the cafe.
Yes.
All of that row was cafes.
The cafe was Maroukou.
I don't remember
what it was called.
Hiotissa was Maroukou.
I don't think so.
There were others.
We are young children
of that era.
We didn't have hearing.
We were coming to church
and it was No Man's Land.
The streets of houses
here were
houses.
Yes, houses.
Here, at the same time,
where the English school is now,
there was a river.
Yes.
It was a very interesting area.
It was called Iskanao.
Yes.
It was side streets.
We are coming from this side
for the church.
A completely different layout
and everything here is very different.
I don't know.
There will be something here in the old days.
Yes.
Photographs.
I am looking for
the Katei Heritage Center.
There are many.
I have found photos of the area.
I can't find photos from this corner
with the Greek shops.
I found only one.
I will show you now.
Because you may not remember.
I would remember in peace.
My sister Nana is the one
who has the greatest memory.
Yes.
We will talk about her later.
Yes, she is a priest.
No, she was here last Friday.
But she may be here for the next 10 minutes.
One quarter.
I will show you something.
Take a look.
We will take it.
How will we take it?
How will we go in this corner?
We have a small car.
I will show you.
I have to see what I have.
I found some photos of an old fountain.
I found some photos
from the Greek cafes inside.
Aha.
But I haven't found any from outside.
Shh.
I have a photo collection.
I will show you.
I have an old laptop.
I will take a photo.
This is Ioannis Kisanis.
We have Kisanis in the house of the Swarovski.
Yes.
I remember the photo.
This corner.
This is the corner of the church.
Yes.
Maroukos was on this side.
That way.
This is the other end.
This is the other end, isn't it?
Yes.
That's the church during the war.
Good Lord.
Good God.
From the interior of the cafe.
Yes, from the interior of the cafe.
I don't know.
I need to read.
It says here that it is from the war.
I don't know.
Cafe of restaurants.
But it doesn't say anything.
I don't know.
That's 40s.
The one Sophia's cafe was.
Yes.
It was Sophia.
Ullandredes.
Of course.
This left.
Chipshandlers.
Down the bottom.
Just at the bottom of Butte Street.
Just as you approach.
The lights.
The traffic light.
Where Asprey's building is today.
Yes.
But I think it was on the other side, was it not?
Ullandredes.
Where Asprey's building was.
It wasn't there.
It wasn't on that side, was it?
There was Corrie's there.
Corrie's.
Angleys.
Angleys, yes.
Very famous.
The family of Corrie's.
How did they call him?
Argyros.
Do you remember?
I don't remember.
I remember.
Captain Ullandredes.
All those heroes.
I remember.
And Margarita.
And now.
Michalis Argyros.
Yes.
And there was another hat.
Kubara would remember much better.
All of these are from this, Ioannis Kisani's.
Oh, Dukas.
That was another one.
Dukas.
We had Dukas in various worlds, didn't we?
I also may have some.
Sorry.
Close it before you go there.
Find it again.
You don't remember the writing of Vergotis.
It was closed before the war.
I don't remember that.
Except for the bar,
there were Greek bakalikas.
Many.
Very many.
Café, bakalika.
At Dockview Road.
Thompson Street.
Do you remember who had what?
It was...
Mr. Dimitris didn't have bakalikas at the bar.
No, at the cart.
At the cart.
My mother had.
Mrs. Katerina's mother had.
At the bar.
The 50s.
Up into Dockview Road.
We don't have.
Dimitris Lantzos...
He had grocery stores.
In Cardiff.
In the 60s.
70s.
In McIntosh Place.
McIntosh Place.
In Routh.
What was that?
King's Stores.
In Canton, yes.
In 7 Road.
7 Road.
What can this be?
McIntosh Place.
What was that?
This newspaper, which I can't find now,
has published all the births and baptisms in Cardiff.
That's wonderful.
Wonderful.
60s also.
60s.
Yes.
Do you remember this commentator?
Oh, that's the other one, Logothetis.
No.
No, I don't remember.
Was he in Kalinikos' time?
Logothetis.
I don't remember them, Katerina.
He was in prison, I remember.
He was in prison.
Yes.
That time was very little.
In the early 60s.
60s.
Yes, so early 60s.
Wish we could help.
No, no, you're helping much.
Yes, I think.
Yes.
That's too new for me.
I remembered the pizza.
And Pyrmanes.
Pyrmanes, yes.
The family name was Kalamotous.
Kalamotous, the same name.
Yes.
Lots of families from here.
If you have any old photos, I would happily take a picture of them and put them in my cards.
If you've got any old photos of people doing things.
It doesn't matter to be business.
It's just a gathering.
First liberation.
Okay.
We've got plenty of those.
Books everywhere.
You can have a look at them and bring them in and choose what you want to see.
I can photograph them for now.
And then we'll show them out later.
Because you know how it is.
My job is usually collecting everything.
And then thinking afterwards.
Yes.
Have you got a time limit to do this?
We should produce something by the end of March next year.
That's our end time.
And we'll see.
End of Katarina's London Marathon Agiotti's interview.
So we'll see.
And they used to send me to the coal exchange to take contracts like you say.
And take the mail.
But it was not posted or emails in those days.
The office girl, you just walked it.
And it could have been ten times a day.
But you had to take paperwork to exchange views and messages.
And that's how the system worked.
Yes.
And I was very happy to see that.
And that's how the system worked.
But I remember it was buzzing.
I can picture it now.
And it was such a young girl myself just starting out.
And overwhelming.
Overwhelming with the amount of business and people exchanging lots of money.
Fantastic.
So he might have some information.
Yes, he might help you.
We might be able to help you.
He's a very good person.
And he's very good at it.
So I need to say something.
Actually, that's why we said we were going to do that.
When we applied for this.
That would be great.
Like a small exhibition of people's photos.
And organize it in the case of fundraising event.
So, yeah, that's the reason we're asking for photos.
But I'm having to cut it.
We'll look it up.
We'll see if we can track something down.
Yes.
After this weekend we can look at Fr. Spiro.
Mrs. Galimikos.
Mrs. Viterra. Mrs. Williams.
Mrs. Williams. She was Greek but married to a Welshman.
Mrs. Viterra. Who's that? You?
No. Who's that? Me.
That's you.
Stasas? Stasas. No.
I can't see upside down.
Look at all the blackboard.
Good well being. Stasas.
Stasas. Good. All right.
You have to hear.
I did see them earlier.
They're somewhere there.
Here they are.
Father Salabata. Here.
There's some Galimikos.
And all the... I think they've all gone, haven't they?
I can't see how they've all gone.
All have gone.
And many from here.
The ladies.
Yes.
Thank you very much. I want to tire you out.